initial work to add documentation of GPS WPF (#129)
ros-planning/navigation.ros.org: tutorials/docs/navigation2_gps_navigation.rst

      </div>             
    </h1>

Overview
========

This tutorial shows you how to use Navigation2 for GPS Navigation, the tutorial includes steps to do a GPS waypoint following.
Follow each step carefully.

The requirements for this task are as follows:

- Collect GPS waypoints with orientation information.
- Setup `Robot Localization <https://github.com/cra-ros-pkg/robot_localization/>`_ such that utm -> map coordinate frame transform is available.
- Use provided sample action client code to request to action server for following of GPS waypoints.

Tutorial Steps
==============

0- Collect GPS Waypoints
------------------------

We can consider two cases here. GPS waypoint following is possible in both simulation and real. This tutorial was developed based on simulation but all the steps should also apply on a real system. 

Although It might not be the most convinient way, a practical way to collect the GPS waypoints is to traverse the path and collect GPS waypoints along the way with a frequency.

> The action client node then can read this waypoints in yaml file and go through them. Assuming that you have ``sensor_msgs::msg::NavSatFix`` message type available under /gps/fix topic and ``sensor_msgs::msg::Imu``  

Reviewer: "collector" - also link to that

Reviewer: "collect"

message type available under /imu/data topic, you might drive the robot to points and use provided gps_waypoint_collectr node to colect GPS coordinates and robot's orientation at that point. 

We are interested in getting latitude, longitude and altitude at this location. We also need to consider a desired orientation at this pose. A global orientation can be acquired from an earth referenced IMU. Please see more details on

> how the IMU should report the data at `Robot Localization <http://docs.ros.org/en/melodic/api/robot_localization/html/preparing_sensor_data.html#imu>`_. For the orientation, only yaw angle is our concern here. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how the IMU should report the data at `Robot Localization <http://docs.ros.org/en/melodic/api/robot_localization/html/preparing_sensor_data.html#imu>`_. 
```

We have provided a node in tutorial source code to collect synced imu and gps data at waypoints. The topics can be configured to your case. ;

> ``gps_waypoint_collector.launh.py`` in ``nav2_gps_waypoint_follower_demo`` ;

Reviewer: "launch"

.. code-block:: python

  from launch import LaunchDescription
  import launch_ros.actions
  import os
  import yaml
  from launch.substitutions import EnvironmentVariable
  import pathlib
  import launch.actions
  from launch.actions import DeclareLaunchArgument
  from ament_index_python.packages import get_package_share_directory

  def generate_launch_description():
      return LaunchDescription([
          launch_ros.actions.Node(
                  package='nav2_gps_waypoint_follower_demo', 
                  executable='gps_waypoint_collector', 
                  name='gps_waypoint_collector_node',
                  output='screen',
                  remappings=[('/gps', '/gps/fix'),
                              ('/imu', '/imu/data')],  
                  parameters=[{'frequency': 1},  # dont set to high otherwise you will end up with hundreds of waypoints!

>                               {'yaml_file_out': "/home/user_name/collected_points.yaml"}]  #change this according to your home dir

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                              {'yaml_file_out': "/path/to/collected_points.yaml"}]   # change this to desired location
```

              )               
  ])

> remap your topics accordingly. 

Reviewer: Delete this

> frequency parameter will determine density of collected points. Also do not forget to replace your user name in the path given to yaml file.

Reviewer: code block params

Reviewer: These also don't all need to be single paragraphs, please combine more of these sentences into structure.

You need to make sure that you have built packages in `navigation2_tutorials <https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2_tutorials>`_ successfully. 
After you drove the robot to a waypoint then do ;

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: None of these code blocks are rendering

  source ~/your_colcon_ws/install/setup.bash
  ros2 launch nav2_gps_waypoint_follower_demo gps_waypoint_collector.launch.py

You should be able to see terminal outputting current GPS location and orientation in form of; 

.. code-block:: bash
  [gps_waypoint_collector-1] [INFO] [1609821278.276347895] [gps_waypoint_collector_node]: Entering to timer callback, this is periodicly called
  [gps_waypoint_collector-1] [INFO] [1609821278.276561015] [gps_waypoint_collector_node]: curr_gps_waypoint: [0.00000000, 0.00000003, 0.63917288, 0.7]
  [gps_waypoint_collector-1] [INFO] [1609821279.276582547] [gps_waypoint_collector_node]: curr_gps_waypoint: [0.00000000, 0.00000003, 0.63917288, 0.75]
  [gps_waypoint_collector-1] [INFO] [1609821280.276421593] [gps_waypoint_collector_node]: curr_gps_waypoint: [0.00000000, 0.00000003, 0.63917288, 0.755]

here the values corresponds to ; 

.. code-block:: bash
  curr_gps_waypoint: [lat, long, alt, yaw(radians)]  

> This callback is called periodicly accrding to the frequency you set, if the robot moves the values will be updated. The points are published to a topic as well. 

Reviewer: "periodically" 

Please review this tutorial a few times and find the typos - there's a bunch of them

Of course it is still possible to map an outdoor Environment but for this tutorial we do not consider SLAM. We assume that the localization is made availbe with GPS,
see Robot Localization step of this tutorial.

We still need global and local costmaps. These two costmaps basically relies on live sensory data for obstacle free navigation. 
You might have a pointCloud or laserScan. There are a few important parameters that needs to be setup correctly for costmaps. 

The costmaps should be rolling_window enabled, so that they could `roll` together with robot. 

.. code-block:: python
  rolling_window: true

The planner cannot provide a plan that exceeds boundry of global costmap, therefore you need to set a reasonable size for your global costmap so that planner can handle requests accordingly.
For example with adding following configuration, planner will be able to handle goals that are up to 80 metres far away.
.. code-block:: python
  width: 80
  height: 80
  resolution: 0.2

Adjusts the sizes of global and local costmaps according to your desired reachability.   

3- Let The Robot Follow The GPS Waypoints
-----------------------------------------

> Assuming that you have already collected your waypoints and they reside at `navigation2_tutorials/nav2_gps_waypoint_follower_demo/params/demo_gps_waypoints.yaml`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the purposes of this section, we assume that you have already collected your waypoints and they reside at ``navigation2_tutorials/nav2_gps_waypoint_follower_demo/params/demo_gps_waypoints.yaml``. 
```

> You can simply launch the GPS waypoint following with provided node. 

Reviewer: These all don't need to be independent paragraphs

You need to make sure that you have built packages in `navigation2_tutorials <https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2_tutorials>`_ successfully. 
After sucessful build do;

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: Not rendering

  from launch.event_handlers.on_shutdown import OnShutdown

  import lifecycle_msgs.msg
  import os

  def generate_launch_description():
      share_dir = get_package_share_directory(
          'nav2_gps_waypoint_follower_demo')
      parameter_file = LaunchConfiguration('params_file')
      node_name = 'gps_waypoint_follower_demo'

      params_declare = DeclareLaunchArgument('params_file',
                                            default_value=os.path.join(
                                                share_dir, 'params', 'demo_gps_waypoints.yaml'),
                                            description='FPath to the ROS2 parameters file to use.')

      driver_node = LifecycleNode(package='nav2_gps_waypoint_follower_demo',
                                  executable='gps_waypoint_follower_demo',
                                  name=node_name,
                                  namespace='',
                                  output='screen',
                                  parameters=[parameter_file],
                                  )

      return LaunchDescription([
          params_declare,
          driver_node,
      ])

> If you save more than one different waypoint data files then just change the demo_gps_waypoints.yaml with your desired file. 

Reviewer: This section doesn't really end with a robot following waypoints or explaining any of the things they're launching. Alot more explanation required.
